okay welcome to the
second uh video in in uh chapter four
uh imperfections or defects in
crystalline solids
so we did the point defects last time
and now we're going to uh move up in
energy level
so the point defects don't require a
whole lot of energy to form because
we're only looking at
a single atom kind of defect or maybe
a distortion a few atoms a distance from
that
but now we're going to look at line
defects where we've got a whole
row of atoms that are involved
and then next time interfacial where
we've got a whole surface of atoms
involved okay so the energy
level of these keeps going up and
remember in terms of structures
lower energy is always what we want
lower energy is
the more stable configuration
all right so let's go ahead and talk
about dislocations dislocations are
extremely important and we're going to
take advantage
of controlling the numbers of
dislocations
in a solid to improve mechanical
behavior
so it'll turn out that strengthening of
many uh metals and alloys can be done
through increasing the number of
dislocations in the original structure
so these defects actually result in a
strengthening
up to some point and then they create a
brittle solid
which is then detrimental so we'll talk
about that more
in the chapters to come so for now let's
just see what a line
dislocation looks like so i've got a
tem micrograph here on the left side
and this is at atomic resolution
essentially or just
just before atomic resolution and what
we're seeing here these lines
these are actually dislocation lines
so the way this instrument works
these bright regions are where the
x-ray beam the electron sorry the
electron beam
is able to penetrate through the sample
relatively easily and it results
in a bright area the detector is sitting
behind the sample
and then the dark lines are where the
lattice is distorted
so this electron beam has trouble moving
through and so
it shows up dark and the
dislocations are are lines of distortion
in the lattice so we can see them here
and so they do show up as lines that's
why they're referred to as line defects
you can see there's a lot of them in
this
m micrograph remember this is now 51 000
x in the original micrograph that was
taken
so i want to talk about some theories
about
deformation so dislocations are going to
be important
when you're thinking about plastic or
permanent deformation
that is when you take something and you
bend it into a new shape
you've plastically deformed permanently
deformed it
okay this is different from elastic
deformation
which is when you stretch something
and if you let go of the force it
returns to its original shape like a
spring
so in order for there to be permanent
deformation in our crystal structure
you can imagine what has to happen is we
need to
move one part of the crystal
relative to another part of the crystal
we're showing this here at
an atomic scale this has to happen all
throughout our solid
but we need to move atoms from um
one set of sites
it was over here originally right
over to another set of sites if i if i
only move them
part way so maybe here
and i let go of the force this would end
up just returning back to where it
started from
that would be some that would be elastic
but if i can remove them
move them all the way over so that it
is forming the same crystal structure
again it's coming back into
the correct sites then this is permanent
there's no reason to go back
so i need to slide these planes of
crystals along each of me
now if this was the mechanism where i
have one set of planes that just slides
all together
over the other set of planes it turns
out that this would take
much much higher strengths
much much higher stress values than what
we see experimentally
in fact this crystal if we did it this
way when it's status
this site here when it's maximum
displacement
it's very close to the theoretical
strength of the material
and we would most likely end up with
fracture
so there's another way that this needs
to
happen that was first speculate is
instead of trying to move the entire
crystal here
over top of the bottom one at one time
what if we were to just kind of move
a piece okay so what we did is we kind
of
pushed in a set of planes
okay and we've distorted this region
right in here
it looks like we've got an extra set of
planes in our structure
but if i look up here the lattice looks
fine it's really
right in here where i've got the problem
so i've got too many atoms in this
little region so
this is the distortion that that dm
micrograph sees
now remember this is coming in and out
of the board so it forms a line
but now all i got to do is move this
over one by one
and remove the whole crystal
so this is a much easier process takes
much less
stress this would be similar to
you moving say a 100 foot hose across
your backyard
instead of pulling the hose all at one
shot like in this picture
you would go ahead and put a kink in it
right kind of whip the hose put a kink
in it and let that kink
move down the whole length of the hose
and then you've managed to move
the hose over by whatever that kink size
was
so that's kind of the idea
this was first shown on these very
simple
experiments these bubble raft
experiments so what i have here
are tiny little bubbles and they're
floating on
water and what we're going to see and
they're packed
real well and this looks like a
hexagonal kind of packing that you'd see
on that one one one plane and face
centered cubic again
what you're going to do is you're going
to start squeezing the bubbles together
and if you do that then you're going to
want to displace them you don't want to
have deformation
so what we're looking to see is do we
see entire
rows of atoms just suddenly moving
across one another to a new position
or do we see something that looks more
like a dislocation where we get
a distortion locally somewhere and then
that distortion
moves along as it moves
part of the crystal until it's complete
so
again these are just bubbles that's a
very nice experiment
what do we get there they are seeing
these
lines that come running zipping across
there it goes
those are the dislocations as they zip
across
this structure we're displacing there it
is
we're just placing one row of bubbles
relative to the other so
actually this entire crystal over here
if you want to think of it that way if
bubbles
is displaced relative to the bubbles
below that line there goes another one
shooting across here okay so this is the
idea of a dislocation
a tem micrograph again and i showed this
before to you we saw dislocation lines
in this tm
type micrograph but now we've got a
sample that's being
deformed plastically in the dm
and what you'll get to see now is the
motion of real dislocations
so there they are all just zooming along
this direction again as they move along
they're displacing
this crystal one atomic plane
at a time and so this
bending that you see in a macro scale
is actually done by the displacement
of large number huge numbers of
dislocations your textbook will talk
about
the uh the numbers of dislocations that
uh you'll have in a solid and we'll talk
about a little bit more in chapter to
come
but huge numbers dislocations that are
moving the material at an atomic scale
and that results in the overall
deformation you see at a macro scale
so you can start imagining that if i
make it somehow
difficult for these dislocations to move
then i'm going to end up making it more
difficult for plastic deformation to
happen
and that indeed is what strengthening
is all about so that would be chapter 7.
all right structure wise just want to
make sure that you've got these two
types
kind of in your head there's the edge
dislocation this is the one that
sort of talked about before where it
looks like there's an extra plane
of atoms here in the structure but again
if you look out here things look good
square look down here they're looking
square
it's right when i'm in here that i see
that there's a distortion
and there's a little distortion up here
so this is really where the dislocation
is this is the line that's coming in and
out of the board
so this is referred to as an edge
dislocation when you see this kind of
geometry
and then as you strain the material this
dislocation will move
in this direction and it moves by
one atomic jump or what's called the
burgers vector it just describes the
magnitude
each time the dislocation moves of
displacement
the edge dislocation is characterized by
the fact that the burgers vector
points perpendicular right
to the edge dislocation which again is
coming in and out of the board
so that's our edge dislocation
eventually when it gets over to the side
this will break and i'll end up with
this sticking out the other type of
dislocation we can have which
is called a screw dislocation
and in this dislocation the displacement
of the solid
shown here the burgers vector so the
solid is going to the top half of the
solid is getting displaced that way
relative to this bottom half but the
dislocation line itself
is here running along the inside of this
solid
so my displacement here is now parallel
to my dislocation line
that's different again than the edge
which is perpendicular it's really not
that important i'm not going to be
quizzing you on that that bit of this
but there's an
edge and then there's a screw
dislocation and the one
the way to see this screw dislocation is
if you were to start off at some point
here
well first let me just start off let's
say over here
if i was to start off here and i count
across
maybe four or five units one would i do
one two
three four one two three four one two
three four and then back up again i end
up right where i started from
if i have a dislocation in my solid when
i do this
i'm going to be displaced from my
original location
this works for the edge dislocation as
well as the screw
so let's go ahead and do that let's say
i start here and i go
let me just do by the so i'm gonna go
down two let's go one two
three four one two three
four one two three
four and then i gotta come back down two
so that
this is that displacement total of four
okay so i formed my loop
but notice now that i'm one level
inside the material okay i've been
having displacement here
that represents the burgers vector so if
i do that again
then i'll just keep coming in and
spiraling
through the material so that's my my
screw dislocation
all right so that's the end of the
dislocation discussions like i said
we'll get into the importance of them
much more when we get to chapter seven